# Submission to Strange Loop

## Title

1234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345

Machine Learning by Tinkering with Guild AI



## Abstract

Can an engineer build state-of-the-art machine learning applications
without being a data scientist? Is it possible to adapt code for
state-of-the-art models to new problems? In this session, we explore
machine learning using an age-old scientific method: tinkering.

As tinkerers, engineers experiment with working code. First, they
confirm that it does something useful. Next, they adapt it
step-by-step to their requirements. With this approach, engineers
build applications without penetrating the complexity of reused
code. The same method can apply to machine learning.

In this session, we build two machine learning applications by
tinkering. The first is an object detector. The second is a text
classifier. Both use a technique called transfer learning to speed
training and improve performance. Both use experimentation en mass to
to achieve state-of-the-art performance. Neither application requires
data science know-how.

We use the open source toolkit Guild AI to run and track machine
learning experiments. Engineers and researchers use Guild AI to tinker
at scale. Guild AI works with unmodified upstream project source code.

If you want to use machine learning, this session features your skills
as an engineer. You learn how to approach machine learning, how to
select code for reuse, and how to run experiments. You learn how to
apply your results to build applications. Finally, you build
confidence to tackle problems that otherwise seem intimidating and
out-of-reach.

## Keywords

machine learning, data science, application development

## What attendees will learn

This talk is a counter-point to traditional applied machine learning
talks. The traditional form builds up from mathematical principles and
low level constructs. It hopes to quickly train engineers to become
data scientists. But practical data science expertise takes years of
dedicated graduate level study. This talk inverts the problem. It
starts with working solutions and adapting them as (mostly) black
boxes to a new problem. This is an approach that engineers take every
day. It's easy to apply to machine learning.

Attendees will learn that this method is frequently used and is
effective. They'll see examples and learn how to apply the method on
their own.


## Talk history

This talk is specific to Strange Loop.

## Bio

Garrett Smith is the creator of Guild AI. Guild AI is an open source
toolkit used by engineers and researchers to train and optimize
machine learning models at scale. He works with developers to improve
model reuse for training and deployment across different
applications. Before starting Guild AI, he co-founded Stax Networks, a
platform-as-a-service company acquired by CloudBees in 2010. At
CloudBees he ran operations, hosting thousands of enterprise
applications. Garrett is founder of Chicago ML, Chicago's largest AI
user group. He hosts seminars and workshops bridging research and
applied domains.
